Optimising an AWS microservice - part one (#250)
skybet/skybet.github.io: _posts/2018-11-02-optimising-microservices-part-1.md

In this two part post, I’ll take you through some of the optimisations we’ve made to our system to hit our non-functional requirements.

## Our System
![Initial System Diagram](/images/optimising-aws-microservice/01-initial-system.png)

The above diagram shows our initial system design. There are three main components here:

### The ‘Opinion’ Store 
* ‘Opinion’ is our term for the trader inputs required for our model, i.e. a numerical representation of what we expect to happen in the game. It comprises things like the average number of goals we expect a team to score
* This is stored in a DynamoDB table fronted by an API that allows the traders to PUT opinion and our system to GET it when required

### The Pricing Model
* This is a java lambda - you pass it a description of what might happen in a football match along with the necessary opinion and it returns a price.

> * E.G. you might request “Leeds Utd to score 3+ goals” and it might tell you this is 2/1

Reviewer: It's "e.g.", but because it's at the start of a sentence, it should be "E.g." ;-) I'd just opt for spelling it out though:

```suggestion
* For example, you might request “Leeds Utd to score 3+ goals” and it might tell you this is 2/1
```

## “*Make It Work. Make It Right. Make It Fast.*” 
### Kent Beck

Whilst our first cut did include some in-memory caching in the pricing model, we didn’t put much initial thought into performance and focused instead on delivering a fully functional system for the Sportsbook team to begin testing against.

However, before going live to customers we were given a couple of NFRs to hit:
* We need to be able to handle **50 requests per second**
* Our end to end needs to be **under 100ms latency at the 95<sup>th</sup> percentile**
    * i.e. 95 out of 100 requests must be under 100ms

One of the best things about using AWS serverless systems is how well they perform at scale. AWS Lambda quickly scales outwards as it handles executions in parallel. You are given a soft account limit by AWS of 1000 concurrent requests so 50 requests per second wasn’t a concern for us.  
However, the latency requirement was a worry – the model alone takes several hundred milliseconds to calculate when handling a complicated request as it has to do some serious number crunching – so we set about writing some performance tests to put our system to the test.

## Our Test Scenario

> We wrote a performance test in Node JS that populates our opinion store with fake fixtures and then sends requests to our pricing service, recording the latency of each request. 

Reviewer: For consistency, we should match the canonical form used by the maintainer; our most common ones are listed on [the jobs page](https://engineering.skybettingandgaming.com/jobs/), so in this instance we should use "Node.js"
